Benzing, M. M., Morgan, A. E., & Yarnetsky, J. (2019-2021). Research on Library Skills and Students from Disadvantaged Appalachian Counties. 
Overview: In Ohio, public school funding models have been ruled unconstitutional four times due to the great discrepancies among districts from different economic and geographic areas. One of these discrepancies is often the availability of librarians and library services. In our research, we aimed to examine how these discrepancies may alter preparedness for college-level research for incoming first-year students from various backgrounds. 
Methodology: We worked with the Office of Institutional Research to compile a list of students from Appalachian-designated counties. We narrowed this list to Ohio counties that were considered at risk economically. We then sent a survey to these students and to a control group of students from other Ohio counties from our incoming first-year class. We received 117 responses in total. 
Findings: We found that students from poorer Appalachian counties were more likely to receive information literacy and research skills in high school from someone other than a librarian. These same students also reported being less confident in their ability to do university-level library research.
My contributions: Co-authored the survey, took the lead in analyzing the survey results,and co-authored our presentations.
Results Sharing: Abi and I presented our team's findings as a virtual poster session at the Academic Libraries Association of Ohio 2020 Conference.
2021 Update: Reconduct our study to see how the emergency remote learning in high school influenced student research readiness upon admission to our university. Our original 2019 study results can act as a control group to highlight possible differences.
Yarnetsky, J. (2019) Content accessibility in Big 10 University libraries LibGuides  
Overview: During our extensive accessibility remediation, I've corrected many errors that repeat on nearly every page because they were embedded into the website’s templates. However, I also found there were still a substantial number of errors in the content feeding into these templates. This made me curious if other university libraries were having similar content accessibility issues?
Methodology: I focused on LibGuides, a common content creation platform for academic libraries. I used our university’s automated accessibility testing platform to evaluate 1000 pages from each of the Big 10 Conference university libraries. From the results, I focused on two common, but easy to correct types of accessibility issues— having alternative text available for all images and creating links with meaningful text (as opposed to "click here").
Findings: I found that half the university libraries had significant content issues (more than 15 percent of all pages with errors) in one or both of these categories. Interestingly, Minnesota's 36% error rate was actually worse than Indiana at 97% because Indiana's errors resulted from a single university logo without alt text that would be easy to correct. Minnesota's errors were in the content of multiple librarian-created research guides. 
Results sharing: This research led me to propose, and be accepted for, presentations on content accessibility at the 2019 ACRL and ALAO conferences. To give library staff support in tackling content accessibility, I wrote an ebook at liba11y.org which could be shared with library staff anywhere. Details on the presentations and ebook follow.