---
layout: page
permalink: /scholarship/
title: scholarship
description: 
nav: true
---

-{.presentation} **Yarnetsky, J (2022, March). *[Developing With a Static Site Generator](https://computersinlibraries.infotoday.com/2022/program.aspx#15132).* Computers in Libraries 2022. Arlington, Virginia. Information Today, Inc.**
    - Library websites have long been run by database-driven content management systems (CMSs) such as Drupal and WordPress. Unfortunately, the digital vulnerabilities of such systems are significant and require frequent maintenance to maintain security. Static-site generators (SSGs), such as Jekyll and Gatsby, take a different approach by entirely removing slow and risky databases from the live site. The results are sites that are fast and more secure and that can be easier to host and easier to archive for the future. Yarnetsky covers how the SSG development model differs from the current CMS model, how SSGs can work for you and your community, how to make these geeky tools user-friendly, and finally pulls back the curtain on how our university libraries have utilized static site generators as the core of our online services.
-{.presentation} **Yarnetsky, J., Irwin, K., & Qu, M. (April 2021). *Free Yourself From the Database: Developing With a Static Site Generator.* WebCon 2021: An online conference for web professionals within higher education and beyond. University of Illinois Webmasters.**
-{.presentation} **Morgan, A. & Yarnetsky, J (2020, October) *[Poster: Effects of high school location on first-year students’ research confidence and college readiness](https://2020.alaoweb.org/posters/hs-location).* ALAO 2020 Conference. Online: Academic Library Association of Ohio.**
    - We shared our research where we examined how these school funding discrepancies may have altered preparedness for college-level research for incoming first-year students from various backgrounds. We found significant differences in student confidence between students taught by librarians in high school and students taught by others. I co-wrote the poster presentation and edited our introductory video.
-{.presentation} **Yarnetsky, J. (2019, October). *The Last Mile for Web Accessibility: Help Making Our Content Universally Accessible*. [ALAO 2019 Conference](https://www.alaoweb.org/conferences/2019/program). Nationwide Hotel and Conference Center, Columbus, Ohio: Academic Library Association of Ohio**.
    - Making our online content universally accessible to our entire academic community is integral to our professional ethics. In this endeavor, our web developers/librarians can maintain perfect, accessible templates for our websites and LibGuides. However, if the content flowing into these pages have accessibility errors, then we can still ruin our students' educational experience. This is what could be described as our last mile challenge on accessibility.In training guides and sessions, we often teach creators *how* to make content accessible, but rarely explain why the methods work. As a result, the difficult concepts remained a mystery. Through (trial and error) trainings and presentations, it was discovered that explaining how our students use assistive technologies and how our content inadvertently posed barriers to these tools that our content creators gained an understanding for why these best practices worked. Equally important we gained an empathy for our students.This session will cover these topics and how we can use simple browser-based tools to visualize how students using assistive technologies see our content. Finally, [an online accessibility guide](https://www.liba11y.org/) that can be taken back to our libraries will be shared.
-{.presentation} **Revelle, A. A., & Yarnetsky, J. (2019, October). *Do You Need Help? The Implementation of Proactive Chat and its Effect on the Quantity and Quality of Reference Interactions*. [ALAO 2019 Conference](https://www.alaoweb.org/conferences/2019/program). Nationwide Hotel and Conference Center, Columbus, Ohio: Academic Libraries Association of Ohio**.
    - Like many other academic libraries across the United States, we have eliminated our in-person reference service point. When this change occurred, we did see an increase in chat transactions but the overall number of patron interactions decreased. In an attempt to increase our engagement with library patrons, the libraries’ web development team collaborated with subject librarians to implement a proactive chat system. Like with many similar systems that are employed on commercial websites, patrons are invited to ask a question if they remain on a single page of the libraries’ website for more than 45 seconds. The first part of this presentation will discuss the rationale behind the decision to move to a proactive chat system as well as specific information on how the system was developed and deployed. The second half will present information on the effect of the service, covering not only simple data points such as the number of total interactions and the average time of engagement per patron, but also changes in the quality and nature of the questions. This will be accomplished by using the text-analysis tool Voyant to analyze the chat transcripts from before and after the implementation of the proactive chat system. [Presentation Slides](https://www.alaoweb.org/resources/conferences/2019/archive/Session%202/Proactive%20Chat.pptx) (Powerpoint file)
-{.presentation} **Yarnetsky, J. (2019, April). *Make your online content accessible to all (not just those who can see your library website)*. ACRL 2019 Conference. Cleveland, Ohio: Association of College and Research Libraries**.
    - TechConnect presentation explaining how our content can become barriers to our student learning and how and why accessibility practices work to solve the issues. I  demonstrated several simple-to-use tools to help content creators implement accessibility best practices. I also introduced [LibA11y, an accessibility resource I authored](https://www.liba11y.org/) that librarians could take back to their campuses.

<hr/>

## Prior scholarship

-{.presentation} Yarnetsky, J. (2017, July) [*CSS with Floaties On: Cascading style sheets for beginners](https://library.mc3.edu/friendly.php?s=css)* [technology workshop]. TCLC Summer Camp. Tri-State College Library Cooperative, Gwynedd Valley PA
-{.presentation} Yarnetsky, J. (2017, July) *Customing LibGuides* [technology workshop]. TCLC Summer Camp. Tri-State College Library Cooperative, Gwynedd Valley PA
-{.presentation} Yarnetsky, J. (2015, March) *Annotating digital exhibits* [panel discussion moderator]. THATCamp CC: The Humanities and Technologies Community Colleges, Philadelphia PA.
-{.presentation} Yarnetsky, J. (2014, September). *Digital Humanities on a Dime*. [panel discussion moderator] THATcamp Philly. The Humanities and Technologies, Philadelphia PA.
-{.presentation} Yarnetsky, J. (2014, July) *WordPress for your library* [technology workshop]. TCLC Summer Camp. Tri-State College Library Cooperative, Blue Bell PA
-{.presentation} Yarnetsky J. (2013, October) *Betzwood Film Archives Project*. VUStuff digital humanities conference. Villanova University, Villanova PA.
-{.presentation} Yarnetsky, J. & Greene, L. (2012, October) *Digital history best practices*. MC3 Tech Conference. Montgomery County Community College, Blue Bell PA.
-{.presentation} Yarnetsky, J. (2010, October) *Digital Campus Academy: a multimedia faculty training camp*. [discussion panel] MC3 Tech Conference. Montgomery County Community College, Blue Bell PA.
-{.presentation} Yarnetsky, J. (2010, July) *Using Facebook pages to promote your library* [technology workshop]. TCLC Sum- mer Camp. Tri-State College Library Cooperative, Blue Bell PA.
-{.presentation} Yarnetsky, J. & Barnes, J. (2009, April) *Digital history: Lessons learned* [invited presentation]. 2009 ILF Distrit Conference. Indiana Library Federation, Columbus IN.
-{.presentation} Yarnetsky, J. (2008, October) *Digital Projects using Omeka* [invited presentation]. Open Source Repositories and Digital Libraries Conference. Indiana Online Users Group, Indianapolis IN.
-{.presentation} Yarnetsky, J. & Barnes, J. (2008, August) *River to Rails and our digital history projects lessons learned*. [invited presentation] ILF Reference Division Conference. Indiana Library Federation, Fort Wayne IN.
-{.presentation} Yarnetsky, J. (2008, April) *Open Source: Free Lunch or Free Kittens?* ILF District Conference. Indiana Library Federation, Madison IN.